Welcome back in the last video we examine the second rule for determining the value of the key word
this.
The implicit rule.
This rule states that when the key word this is inside of a declared object its value will always be
the closest parent object.
One thing to note these rules that we are using are not an official part of the JavaScript specification.
So you will not find them there.
These rules are just a helpful way of keeping track of what the value of the key word this is.
At the end of the last video we saw an example of when the context of the key word this changed unexpectedly
in our Say hello method.
If this stuff first name became undefine because the key word this refer to the dog object.
So what if you want to explicitly set the value of the key word this so you can force it to be the person
object instead of the dog object.
This is where the third rule comes in.
Whenever you see the call apply or bind methods you can easily determine what the value of the keyword
this will be because you get to set it as the first parameter to each of these functions.
Before we compare and contrast call apply and bind one thing to remember is that these three methods
can only be invoked on functions called apply and bind are methods that can only be used by functions
not by other data types like strings booleans or objects.
The first method we're going to talk about is call the first argument to the call method is what you
want the value of the keyword this to be.
This is commonly called this Aard and can be set to whatever you want.
The arguments after this are are any parameters that you want to pass to the function that you are changing
the value of the keyword this in that sounds confusing.
Will make more sense for me see an example since a function can have an infinite number of arguments.
We separate each one of them with a comma when using call.
Finally when the call method is used on a function that function is immediately invoked.
Now let's move on to apply apply is almost identical to call except apply will only take in two parameters
at most the first just like call is what we want the value of the key word this to be.
We call that this arc.
The second parameter is an array of arguments that we want to pass to the function in which we are changing
the value of the key word.
This now lets examine bind bind is almost identical to call except instead of invoking the function
which it is called on right away and returns a function definition with the value of the keyword.
This already set to what you passed as the first parameter to the bind method.
Let's quickly recap what I mean by function definition.
I'm going to create a function called first function and it's going to return the string hello.
If I do not call the function but examine the variables first function that I created I am returned
a function definition and is an extremely powerful function as we can see functions with a different
value of the keyword this and call them at a later point in time.
This is quite valuable when working with asynchronous code like said time out and is the building block
for more advanced functional programming techniques like purry Let's quickly recap these three methods
call apply and bind or three methods that are used to explicitly set the value of the keyword.
This we use them.
We want full control over what the value of the key word this will be.
So it has precedence over the first two rules call and apply will invoke the function that they are
called on immediately whereas bind will return a new function definition with the value of the keyword.
This explicitly set finally calling bind except an infinite number of parameters whereas apply only
takes and two in the next video will see an example of call and how we can use it to explicitly set
the value of the keyword this sealer.